# VisualShaderNodeTextureParameter

Inherits: VisualShaderNodeParameter < VisualShaderNode < Resource < RefCounted
< Object

Inherited By: VisualShaderNodeCubemapParameter,
VisualShaderNodeTexture2DArrayParameter, VisualShaderNodeTexture2DParameter,
VisualShaderNodeTexture3DParameter, VisualShaderNodeTextureParameterTriplanar

Performs a uniform texture lookup within the visual shader graph.

## Description

Performs a lookup operation on the texture provided as a uniform for the
shader.

## Properties

ColorDefault | color_default | `0`  
---|---|---  
TextureFilter | texture_filter | `0`  
TextureRepeat | texture_repeat | `0`  
TextureSource | texture_source | `0`  
TextureType | texture_type | `0`  
  
## Enumerations

enum TextureType:

TextureType TYPE_DATA = `0`

No hints are added to the uniform declaration.

TextureType TYPE_COLOR = `1`

Adds `source_color` as hint to the uniform declaration for proper sRGB to
linear conversion.

TextureType TYPE_NORMAL_MAP = `2`

Adds `hint_normal` as hint to the uniform declaration, which internally
converts the texture for proper usage as normal map.

TextureType TYPE_ANISOTROPY = `3`

Adds `hint_anisotropy` as hint to the uniform declaration to use for a
flowmap.

TextureType TYPE_MAX = `4`

Represents the size of the TextureType enum.

enum ColorDefault:

ColorDefault COLOR_DEFAULT_WHITE = `0`

Defaults to fully opaque white color.

ColorDefault COLOR_DEFAULT_BLACK = `1`

Defaults to fully opaque black color.

ColorDefault COLOR_DEFAULT_TRANSPARENT = `2`

Defaults to fully transparent black color.

ColorDefault COLOR_DEFAULT_MAX = `3`

Represents the size of the ColorDefault enum.

enum TextureFilter:

TextureFilter FILTER_DEFAULT = `0`

Sample the texture using the filter determined by the node this shader is
attached to.

TextureFilter FILTER_NEAREST = `1`

The texture filter reads from the nearest pixel only. This makes the texture
look pixelated from up close, and grainy from a distance (due to mipmaps not
being sampled).

TextureFilter FILTER_LINEAR = `2`

The texture filter blends between the nearest 4 pixels. This makes the texture
look smooth from up close, and grainy from a distance (due to mipmaps not
being sampled).

TextureFilter FILTER_NEAREST_MIPMAP = `3`

The texture filter reads from the nearest pixel and blends between the nearest
2 mipmaps (or uses the nearest mipmap if
ProjectSettings.rendering/textures/default_filters/use_nearest_mipmap_filter
is `true`). This makes the texture look pixelated from up close, and smooth
from a distance.

Use this for non-pixel art textures that may be viewed at a low scale (e.g.
due to Camera2D zoom or sprite scaling), as mipmaps are important to smooth
out pixels that are smaller than on-screen pixels.

TextureFilter FILTER_LINEAR_MIPMAP = `4`

The texture filter blends between the nearest 4 pixels and between the nearest
2 mipmaps (or uses the nearest mipmap if
ProjectSettings.rendering/textures/default_filters/use_nearest_mipmap_filter
is `true`). This makes the texture look smooth from up close, and smooth from
a distance.

Use this for non-pixel art textures that may be viewed at a low scale (e.g.
due to Camera2D zoom or sprite scaling), as mipmaps are important to smooth
out pixels that are smaller than on-screen pixels.

TextureFilter FILTER_NEAREST_MIPMAP_ANISOTROPIC = `5`

The texture filter reads from the nearest pixel and blends between 2 mipmaps
(or uses the nearest mipmap if
ProjectSettings.rendering/textures/default_filters/use_nearest_mipmap_filter
is `true`) based on the angle between the surface and the camera view. This
makes the texture look pixelated from up close, and smooth from a distance.
Anisotropic filtering improves texture quality on surfaces that are almost in
line with the camera, but is slightly slower. The anisotropic filtering level
can be changed by adjusting
ProjectSettings.rendering/textures/default_filters/anisotropic_filtering_level.

Note: This texture filter is rarely useful in 2D projects.
FILTER_NEAREST_MIPMAP is usually more appropriate in this case.

TextureFilter FILTER_LINEAR_MIPMAP_ANISOTROPIC = `6`

The texture filter blends between the nearest 4 pixels and blends between 2
mipmaps (or uses the nearest mipmap if
ProjectSettings.rendering/textures/default_filters/use_nearest_mipmap_filter
is `true`) based on the angle between the surface and the camera view. This
makes the texture look smooth from up close, and smooth from a distance.
Anisotropic filtering improves texture quality on surfaces that are almost in
line with the camera, but is slightly slower. The anisotropic filtering level
can be changed by adjusting
ProjectSettings.rendering/textures/default_filters/anisotropic_filtering_level.

Note: This texture filter is rarely useful in 2D projects.
FILTER_LINEAR_MIPMAP is usually more appropriate in this case.

TextureFilter FILTER_MAX = `7`

Represents the size of the TextureFilter enum.

enum TextureRepeat:

TextureRepeat REPEAT_DEFAULT = `0`

Sample the texture using the repeat mode determined by the node this shader is
attached to.

TextureRepeat REPEAT_ENABLED = `1`

Texture will repeat normally.

TextureRepeat REPEAT_DISABLED = `2`

Texture will not repeat.

TextureRepeat REPEAT_MAX = `3`

Represents the size of the TextureRepeat enum.

enum TextureSource:

TextureSource SOURCE_NONE = `0`

The texture source is not specified in the shader.

TextureSource SOURCE_SCREEN = `1`

The texture source is the screen texture which captures all opaque objects
drawn this frame.

TextureSource SOURCE_DEPTH = `2`

The texture source is the depth texture from the depth prepass.

TextureSource SOURCE_NORMAL_ROUGHNESS = `3`

The texture source is the normal-roughness buffer from the depth prepass.

TextureSource SOURCE_MAX = `4`

Represents the size of the TextureSource enum.

## Property Descriptions

ColorDefault color_default = `0`

  * void set_color_default(value: ColorDefault)

  * ColorDefault get_color_default()

Sets the default color if no texture is assigned to the uniform.

TextureFilter texture_filter = `0`

  * void set_texture_filter(value: TextureFilter)

  * TextureFilter get_texture_filter()

Sets the texture filtering mode. See TextureFilter for options.

TextureRepeat texture_repeat = `0`

  * void set_texture_repeat(value: TextureRepeat)

  * TextureRepeat get_texture_repeat()

Sets the texture repeating mode. See TextureRepeat for options.

TextureSource texture_source = `0`

  * void set_texture_source(value: TextureSource)

  * TextureSource get_texture_source()

Sets the texture source mode. Used for reading from the screen, depth, or
normal_roughness texture. See TextureSource for options.

TextureType texture_type = `0`

  * void set_texture_type(value: TextureType)

  * TextureType get_texture_type()

Defines the type of data provided by the source texture. See TextureType for
options.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[void]: No return value.

