# ENetMultiplayerPeer

Inherits: MultiplayerPeer < PacketPeer < RefCounted < Object

A MultiplayerPeer implementation using the ENet library.

## Description

A MultiplayerPeer implementation that should be passed to
MultiplayerAPI.multiplayer_peer after being initialized as either a client,
server, or mesh. Events can then be handled by connecting to MultiplayerAPI
signals. See ENetConnection for more information on the ENet library wrapper.

Note: ENet only uses UDP, not TCP. When forwarding the server port to make
your server accessible on the public Internet, you only need to forward the
server port in UDP. You can use the UPNP class to try to forward the server
port automatically when starting the server.

## Tutorials

  * High-level multiplayer

  * API documentation on the ENet website

## Properties

ENetConnection | host  
---|---  
  
## Methods

Error | add_mesh_peer(peer_id: int, host: ENetConnection)  
---|---  
Error | create_client(address: String, port: int, channel_count: int = 0, in_bandwidth: int = 0, out_bandwidth: int = 0, local_port: int = 0)  
Error | create_mesh(unique_id: int)  
Error | create_server(port: int, max_clients: int = 32, max_channels: int = 0, in_bandwidth: int = 0, out_bandwidth: int = 0)  
ENetPacketPeer | get_peer(id: int) const  
void | set_bind_ip(ip: String)  
  
## Property Descriptions

ENetConnection host

  * ENetConnection get_host()

The underlying ENetConnection created after create_client() and
create_server().

## Method Descriptions

Error add_mesh_peer(peer_id: int, host: ENetConnection)

Add a new remote peer with the given `peer_id` connected to the given `host`.

Note: The `host` must have exactly one peer in the
ENetPacketPeer.STATE_CONNECTED state.

Error create_client(address: String, port: int, channel_count: int = 0,
in_bandwidth: int = 0, out_bandwidth: int = 0, local_port: int = 0)

Create client that connects to a server at `address` using specified `port`.
The given address needs to be either a fully qualified domain name (e.g.
`"www.example.com"`) or an IP address in IPv4 or IPv6 format (e.g.
`"192.168.1.1"`). The `port` is the port the server is listening on. The
`channel_count` parameter can be used to specify the number of ENet channels
allocated for the connection. The `in_bandwidth` and `out_bandwidth`
parameters can be used to limit the incoming and outgoing bandwidth to the
given number of bytes per second. The default of 0 means unlimited bandwidth.
Note that ENet will strategically drop packets on specific sides of a
connection between peers to ensure the peer's bandwidth is not overwhelmed.
The bandwidth parameters also determine the window size of a connection which
limits the amount of reliable packets that may be in transit at any given
time. Returns @GlobalScope.OK if a client was created,
@GlobalScope.ERR_ALREADY_IN_USE if this ENetMultiplayerPeer instance already
has an open connection (in which case you need to call MultiplayerPeer.close()
first) or @GlobalScope.ERR_CANT_CREATE if the client could not be created. If
`local_port` is specified, the client will also listen to the given port; this
is useful for some NAT traversal techniques.

Error create_mesh(unique_id: int)

Initialize this MultiplayerPeer in mesh mode. The provided `unique_id` will be
used as the local peer network unique ID once assigned as the
MultiplayerAPI.multiplayer_peer. In the mesh configuration you will need to
set up each new peer manually using ENetConnection before calling
add_mesh_peer(). While this technique is more advanced, it allows for better
control over the connection process (e.g. when dealing with NAT punch-through)
and for better distribution of the network load (which would otherwise be more
taxing on the server).

Error create_server(port: int, max_clients: int = 32, max_channels: int = 0,
in_bandwidth: int = 0, out_bandwidth: int = 0)

Create server that listens to connections via `port`. The port needs to be an
available, unused port between 0 and 65535. Note that ports below 1024 are
privileged and may require elevated permissions depending on the platform. To
change the interface the server listens on, use set_bind_ip(). The default IP
is the wildcard `"*"`, which listens on all available interfaces.
`max_clients` is the maximum number of clients that are allowed at once, any
number up to 4095 may be used, although the achievable number of simultaneous
clients may be far lower and depends on the application. For additional
details on the bandwidth parameters, see create_client(). Returns
@GlobalScope.OK if a server was created, @GlobalScope.ERR_ALREADY_IN_USE if
this ENetMultiplayerPeer instance already has an open connection (in which
case you need to call MultiplayerPeer.close() first) or
@GlobalScope.ERR_CANT_CREATE if the server could not be created.

ENetPacketPeer get_peer(id: int) const

Returns the ENetPacketPeer associated to the given `id`.

void set_bind_ip(ip: String)

The IP used when creating a server. This is set to the wildcard `"*"` by
default, which binds to all available interfaces. The given IP needs to be in
IPv4 or IPv6 address format, for example: `"192.168.1.1"`.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[const]: This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.
  *[void]: No return value.

