# VoxelGI

Inherits: VisualInstance3D < Node3D < Node < Object

Real-time global illumination (GI) probe.

## Description

VoxelGIs are used to provide high-quality real-time indirect light and
reflections to scenes. They precompute the effect of objects that emit light
and the effect of static geometry to simulate the behavior of complex light in
real-time. VoxelGIs need to be baked before having a visible effect. However,
once baked, dynamic objects will receive light from them. Furthermore, lights
can be fully dynamic or baked.

Note: VoxelGI is only supported in the Forward+ rendering method, not Mobile
or Compatibility.

Procedural generation: VoxelGI can be baked in an exported project, which
makes it suitable for procedurally generated or user-built levels as long as
all the geometry is generated in advance. For games where geometry is
generated at any time during gameplay, SDFGI is more suitable (see
Environment.sdfgi_enabled).

Performance: VoxelGI is relatively demanding on the GPU and is not suited to
low-end hardware such as integrated graphics (consider LightmapGI instead). To
improve performance, adjust
ProjectSettings.rendering/global_illumination/voxel_gi/quality and enable
ProjectSettings.rendering/global_illumination/gi/use_half_resolution in the
Project Settings. To provide a fallback for low-end hardware, consider adding
an option to disable VoxelGI in your project's options menus. A VoxelGI node
can be disabled by hiding it.

Note: Meshes should have sufficiently thick walls to avoid light leaks (avoid
one-sided walls). For interior levels, enclose your level geometry in a
sufficiently large box and bridge the loops to close the mesh. To further
prevent light leaks, you can also strategically place temporary MeshInstance3D
nodes with their GeometryInstance3D.gi_mode set to
GeometryInstance3D.GI_MODE_STATIC. These temporary nodes can then be hidden
after baking the VoxelGI node.

## Tutorials

  * Using Voxel global illumination

  * Third Person Shooter (TPS) Demo

## Properties

CameraAttributes | camera_attributes  
---|---  
VoxelGIData | data  
Vector3 | size | `Vector3(20, 20, 20)`  
Subdiv | subdiv | `1`  
  
## Methods

void | bake(from_node: Node = null, create_visual_debug: bool = false)  
---|---  
void | debug_bake()  
  
## Enumerations

enum Subdiv:

Subdiv SUBDIV_64 = `0`

Use 64 subdivisions. This is the lowest quality setting, but the fastest. Use
it if you can, but especially use it on lower-end hardware.

Subdiv SUBDIV_128 = `1`

Use 128 subdivisions. This is the default quality setting.

Subdiv SUBDIV_256 = `2`

Use 256 subdivisions.

Subdiv SUBDIV_512 = `3`

Use 512 subdivisions. This is the highest quality setting, but the slowest. On
lower-end hardware, this could cause the GPU to stall.

Subdiv SUBDIV_MAX = `4`

Represents the size of the Subdiv enum.

## Property Descriptions

CameraAttributes camera_attributes

  * void set_camera_attributes(value: CameraAttributes)

  * CameraAttributes get_camera_attributes()

The CameraAttributes resource that specifies exposure levels to bake at. Auto-
exposure and non exposure properties will be ignored. Exposure settings should
be used to reduce the dynamic range present when baking. If exposure is too
high, the VoxelGI will have banding artifacts or may have over-exposure
artifacts.

VoxelGIData data

  * void set_probe_data(value: VoxelGIData)

  * VoxelGIData get_probe_data()

The VoxelGIData resource that holds the data for this VoxelGI.

Vector3 size = `Vector3(20, 20, 20)`

  * void set_size(value: Vector3)

  * Vector3 get_size()

The size of the area covered by the VoxelGI. If you make the size larger
without increasing the subdivisions with subdiv, the size of each cell will
increase and result in lower detailed lighting.

Note: Size is clamped to 1.0 unit or more on each axis.

Subdiv subdiv = `1`

  * void set_subdiv(value: Subdiv)

  * Subdiv get_subdiv()

Number of times to subdivide the grid that the VoxelGI operates on. A higher
number results in finer detail and thus higher visual quality, while lower
numbers result in better performance.

## Method Descriptions

void bake(from_node: Node = null, create_visual_debug: bool = false)

Bakes the effect from all GeometryInstance3Ds marked with
GeometryInstance3D.GI_MODE_STATIC and Light3Ds marked with either
Light3D.BAKE_STATIC or Light3D.BAKE_DYNAMIC. If `create_visual_debug` is
`true`, after baking the light, this will generate a MultiMesh that has a cube
representing each solid cell with each cube colored to the cell's albedo
color. This can be used to visualize the VoxelGI's data and debug any issues
that may be occurring.

Note: bake() works from the editor and in exported projects. This makes it
suitable for procedurally generated or user-built levels. Baking a VoxelGI
node generally takes from 5 to 20 seconds in most scenes. Reducing subdiv can
speed up baking.

Note: GeometryInstance3Ds and Light3Ds must be fully ready before bake() is
called. If you are procedurally creating those and some meshes or lights are
missing from your baked VoxelGI, use `call_deferred("bake")` instead of
calling bake() directly.

void debug_bake()

Calls bake() with `create_visual_debug` enabled.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[void]: No return value.

