# Sky

Inherits: Resource < RefCounted < Object

Defines a 3D environment's background by using a Material.

## Description

The Sky class uses a Material to render a 3D environment's background and the
light it emits by updating the reflection/radiance cubemaps.

## Properties

ProcessMode | process_mode | `0`  
---|---|---  
RadianceSize | radiance_size | `3`  
Material | sky_material  
  
## Enumerations

enum RadianceSize:

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_32 = `0`

Radiance texture size is 3232 pixels.

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_64 = `1`

Radiance texture size is 6464 pixels.

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_128 = `2`

Radiance texture size is 128128 pixels.

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_256 = `3`

Radiance texture size is 256256 pixels.

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_512 = `4`

Radiance texture size is 512512 pixels.

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_1024 = `5`

Radiance texture size is 10241024 pixels.

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_2048 = `6`

Radiance texture size is 20482048 pixels.

RadianceSize RADIANCE_SIZE_MAX = `7`

Represents the size of the RadianceSize enum.

enum ProcessMode:

ProcessMode PROCESS_MODE_AUTOMATIC = `0`

Automatically selects the appropriate process mode based on your sky shader.
If your shader uses `TIME` or `POSITION`, this will use PROCESS_MODE_REALTIME.
If your shader uses any of the `LIGHT_*` variables or any custom uniforms,
this uses PROCESS_MODE_INCREMENTAL. Otherwise, this defaults to
PROCESS_MODE_QUALITY.

ProcessMode PROCESS_MODE_QUALITY = `1`

Uses high quality importance sampling to process the radiance map. In general,
this results in much higher quality than PROCESS_MODE_REALTIME but takes much
longer to generate. This should not be used if you plan on changing the sky at
runtime. If you are finding that the reflection is not blurry enough and is
showing sparkles or fireflies, try increasing
ProjectSettings.rendering/reflections/sky_reflections/ggx_samples.

ProcessMode PROCESS_MODE_INCREMENTAL = `2`

Uses the same high quality importance sampling to process the radiance map as
PROCESS_MODE_QUALITY, but updates over several frames. The number of frames is
determined by
ProjectSettings.rendering/reflections/sky_reflections/roughness_layers. Use
this when you need highest quality radiance maps, but have a sky that updates
slowly.

ProcessMode PROCESS_MODE_REALTIME = `3`

Uses the fast filtering algorithm to process the radiance map. In general this
results in lower quality, but substantially faster run times. If you need
better quality, but still need to update the sky every frame, consider turning
on
ProjectSettings.rendering/reflections/sky_reflections/fast_filter_high_quality.

Note: The fast filtering algorithm is limited to 256256 cubemaps, so
radiance_size must be set to RADIANCE_SIZE_256. Otherwise, a warning is
printed and the overridden radiance size is ignored.

## Property Descriptions

ProcessMode process_mode = `0`

  * void set_process_mode(value: ProcessMode)

  * ProcessMode get_process_mode()

Sets the method for generating the radiance map from the sky. The radiance map
is a cubemap with increasingly blurry versions of the sky corresponding to
different levels of roughness. Radiance maps can be expensive to calculate.
See ProcessMode for options.

RadianceSize radiance_size = `3`

  * void set_radiance_size(value: RadianceSize)

  * RadianceSize get_radiance_size()

The Sky's radiance map size. The higher the radiance map size, the more
detailed the lighting from the Sky will be.

See RadianceSize constants for values.

Note: Some hardware will have trouble with higher radiance sizes, especially
RADIANCE_SIZE_512 and above. Only use such high values on high-end hardware.

Material sky_material

  * void set_material(value: Material)

  * Material get_material()

Material used to draw the background. Can be PanoramaSkyMaterial,
ProceduralSkyMaterial, PhysicalSkyMaterial, or even a ShaderMaterial if you
want to use your own custom shader.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[void]: No return value.

