# ConvexPolygonShape2D

Inherits: Shape2D < Resource < RefCounted < Object

A 2D convex polygon shape used for physics collision.

## Description

A 2D convex polygon shape, intended for use in physics. Used internally in
CollisionPolygon2D when it's in CollisionPolygon2D.BUILD_SOLIDS mode.

ConvexPolygonShape2D is solid, which means it detects collisions from objects
that are fully inside it, unlike ConcavePolygonShape2D which is hollow. This
makes it more suitable for both detection and physics.

Convex decomposition: A concave polygon can be split up into several convex
polygons. This allows dynamic physics bodies to have complex concave
collisions (at a performance cost) and can be achieved by using several
ConvexPolygonShape2D nodes or by using the CollisionPolygon2D node in
CollisionPolygon2D.BUILD_SOLIDS mode. To generate a collision polygon from a
sprite, select the Sprite2D node, go to the Sprite2D menu that appears above
the viewport, and choose Create Polygon2D Sibling.

Performance: ConvexPolygonShape2D is faster to check collisions against
compared to ConcavePolygonShape2D, but it is slower than primitive collision
shapes such as CircleShape2D and RectangleShape2D. Its use should generally be
limited to medium-sized objects that cannot have their collision accurately
represented by primitive shapes.

## Properties

PackedVector2Array | points | `PackedVector2Array()`  
---|---|---  
  
## Methods

void | set_point_cloud(point_cloud: PackedVector2Array)  
---|---  
  
## Property Descriptions

PackedVector2Array points = `PackedVector2Array()`

  * void set_points(value: PackedVector2Array)

  * PackedVector2Array get_points()

The polygon's list of vertices that form a convex hull. Can be in either
clockwise or counterclockwise order.

Warning: Only set this property to a list of points that actually form a
convex hull. Use set_point_cloud() to generate the convex hull of an arbitrary
set of points.

Note: The returned array is copied and any changes to it will not update the
original property value. See PackedVector2Array for more details.

## Method Descriptions

void set_point_cloud(point_cloud: PackedVector2Array)

Based on the set of points provided, this assigns the points property using
the convex hull algorithm, removing all unneeded points. See
Geometry2D.convex_hull() for details.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[void]: No return value.

