# ResourceImporterOggVorbis

Inherits: ResourceImporter < RefCounted < Object

Imports an Ogg Vorbis audio file for playback.

## Description

Ogg Vorbis is a lossy audio format, with better audio quality compared to
ResourceImporterMP3 at a given bitrate.

In most cases, it's recommended to use Ogg Vorbis over MP3. However, if you're
using an MP3 sound source with no higher quality source available, then it's
recommended to use the MP3 file directly to avoid double lossy compression.

Ogg Vorbis requires more CPU to decode than ResourceImporterWAV. If you need
to play a lot of simultaneous sounds, it's recommended to use WAV for those
sounds instead, especially if targeting low-end devices.

## Tutorials

  * Importing audio samples

## Properties

int | bar_beats | `4`  
---|---|---  
int | beat_count | `0`  
float | bpm | `0`  
bool | loop | `false`  
float | loop_offset | `0`  
  
## Methods

AudioStreamOggVorbis | load_from_buffer(stream_data: PackedByteArray) static  
---|---  
AudioStreamOggVorbis | load_from_file(path: String) static  
  
## Property Descriptions

int bar_beats = `4`

The number of bars within a single beat in the audio track. This is only
relevant for music that wishes to make use of interactive music functionality,
not sound effects.

A more convenient editor for bar_beats is provided in the Advanced Import
Settings dialog, as it lets you preview your changes without having to
reimport the audio.

int beat_count = `0`

The beat count of the audio track. This is only relevant for music that wishes
to make use of interactive music functionality, not sound effects.

A more convenient editor for beat_count is provided in the Advanced Import
Settings dialog, as it lets you preview your changes without having to
reimport the audio.

float bpm = `0`

The beats per minute of the audio track. This should match the BPM measure
that was used to compose the track. This is only relevant for music that
wishes to make use of interactive music functionality, not sound effects.

A more convenient editor for bpm is provided in the Advanced Import Settings
dialog, as it lets you preview your changes without having to reimport the
audio.

bool loop = `false`

If enabled, the audio will begin playing at the beginning after playback ends
by reaching the end of the audio.

Note: In AudioStreamPlayer, the AudioStreamPlayer.finished signal won't be
emitted for looping audio when it reaches the end of the audio file, as the
audio will keep playing indefinitely.

float loop_offset = `0`

Determines where audio will start to loop after playback reaches the end of
the audio. This can be used to only loop a part of the audio file, which is
useful for some ambient sounds or music. The value is determined in seconds
relative to the beginning of the audio. A value of `0.0` will loop the entire
audio file.

Only has an effect if loop is `true`.

A more convenient editor for loop_offset is provided in the Advanced Import
Settings dialog, as it lets you preview your changes without having to
reimport the audio.

## Method Descriptions

AudioStreamOggVorbis load_from_buffer(stream_data: PackedByteArray) static

Deprecated: Use AudioStreamOggVorbis.load_from_buffer() instead.

Creates a new AudioStreamOggVorbis instance from the given buffer. The buffer
must contain Ogg Vorbis data.

AudioStreamOggVorbis load_from_file(path: String) static

Deprecated: Use AudioStreamOggVorbis.load_from_file() instead.

Creates a new AudioStreamOggVorbis instance from the given file path. The file
must be in Ogg Vorbis format.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[static]: This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.

