# AudioStreamGenerator

Inherits: AudioStream < Resource < RefCounted < Object

An audio stream with utilities for procedural sound generation.

## Description

AudioStreamGenerator is a type of audio stream that does not play back sounds
on its own; instead, it expects a script to generate audio data for it. See
also AudioStreamGeneratorPlayback.

Here's a sample on how to use it to generate a sine wave:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    var playback # Will hold the AudioStreamGeneratorPlayback.
    @onready var sample_hz = $AudioStreamPlayer.stream.mix_rate
    var pulse_hz = 440.0 # The frequency of the sound wave.
    var phase = 0.0
    
    func _ready():
        $AudioStreamPlayer.play()
        playback = $AudioStreamPlayer.get_stream_playback()
        fill_buffer()
    
    func fill_buffer():
        var increment = pulse_hz / sample_hz
        var frames_available = playback.get_frames_available()
    
        for i in range(frames_available):
            playback.push_frame(Vector2.ONE * sin(phase * TAU))
            phase = fmod(phase + increment, 1.0)
    
    
    
    [Export] public AudioStreamPlayer Player { get; set; }
    
    private AudioStreamGeneratorPlayback _playback; // Will hold the AudioStreamGeneratorPlayback.
    private float _sampleHz;
    private float _pulseHz = 440.0f; // The frequency of the sound wave.
    private double phase = 0.0;
    
    public override void _Ready()
    {
        if (Player.Stream is AudioStreamGenerator generator) // Type as a generator to access MixRate.
        {
            _sampleHz = generator.MixRate;
            Player.Play();
            _playback = (AudioStreamGeneratorPlayback)Player.GetStreamPlayback();
            FillBuffer();
        }
    }
    
    public void FillBuffer()
    {
        float increment = _pulseHz / _sampleHz;
        int framesAvailable = _playback.GetFramesAvailable();
    
        for (int i = 0; i < framesAvailable; i++)
        {
            _playback.PushFrame(Vector2.One * (float)Mathf.Sin(phase * Mathf.Tau));
            phase = Mathf.PosMod(phase + increment, 1.0);
        }
    }
    

In the example above, the "AudioStreamPlayer" node must use an
AudioStreamGenerator as its stream. The `fill_buffer` function provides audio
data for approximating a sine wave.

See also AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzer for performing real-time audio spectrum
analysis.

Note: Due to performance constraints, this class is best used from C# or from
a compiled language via GDExtension. If you still want to use this class from
GDScript, consider using a lower mix_rate such as 11,025 Hz or 22,050 Hz.

## Tutorials

  * Audio Generator Demo

## Properties

float | buffer_length | `0.5`  
---|---|---  
float | mix_rate | `44100.0`  
AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate | mix_rate_mode | `2`  
  
## Enumerations

enum AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate:

AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate MIX_RATE_OUTPUT = `0`

Current AudioServer output mixing rate.

AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate MIX_RATE_INPUT = `1`

Current AudioServer input mixing rate.

AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate MIX_RATE_CUSTOM = `2`

Custom mixing rate, specified by mix_rate.

AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate MIX_RATE_MAX = `3`

Maximum value for the mixing rate mode enum.

## Property Descriptions

float buffer_length = `0.5`

  * void set_buffer_length(value: float)

  * float get_buffer_length()

The length of the buffer to generate (in seconds). Lower values result in less
latency, but require the script to generate audio data faster, resulting in
increased CPU usage and more risk for audio cracking if the CPU can't keep up.

float mix_rate = `44100.0`

  * void set_mix_rate(value: float)

  * float get_mix_rate()

The sample rate to use (in Hz). Higher values are more demanding for the CPU
to generate, but result in better quality.

In games, common sample rates in use are `11025`, `16000`, `22050`, `32000`,
`44100`, and `48000`.

According to the Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem, there is no quality
difference to human hearing when going past 40,000 Hz (since most humans can
only hear up to ~20,000 Hz, often less). If you are generating lower-pitched
sounds such as voices, lower sample rates such as `32000` or `22050` may be
usable with no loss in quality.

Note: AudioStreamGenerator is not automatically resampling input data, to
produce expected result mix_rate_mode should match the sampling rate of input
data.

Note: If you are using AudioEffectCapture as the source of your data, set
mix_rate_mode to MIX_RATE_INPUT or MIX_RATE_OUTPUT to automatically match
current AudioServer mixing rate.

AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate mix_rate_mode = `2`

  * void set_mix_rate_mode(value: AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate)

  * AudioStreamGeneratorMixRate get_mix_rate_mode()

Mixing rate mode. If set to MIX_RATE_CUSTOM, mix_rate is used, otherwise
current AudioServer mixing rate is used.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[void]: No return value.

