# Runtime file loading and saving

See also

See Saving games for information on saving and loading game progression.

Sometimes, exporting packs, patches, and mods is not ideal when you want
players to be able to load user-generated content in your project. It requires
users to generate a PCK or ZIP file through the Godot editor, which contains
resources imported by Godot.

Example use cases for runtime file loading and saving include:

  * Loading texture packs designed for the game.

  * Loading user-provided audio tracks and playing them back in an in-game radio station.

  * Loading custom levels or 3D models that can be designed with any 3D DCC that can export to glTF (including glTF scenes saved by Godot at runtime).

  * Using user-provided fonts for menus and HUD.

  * Saving/loading a file format that can contain multiple files but can still easily be read by other applications (ZIP).

  * Loading files created by another game or program, or even game data files from another game not made with Godot.

Runtime file loading can be combined with HTTP requests to load resources from
the Internet directly.

Warning

Do not use this runtime loading approach to load resources that are part of
the project, as it's less efficient and doesn't allow benefiting from Godot's
resource handling functionality (such as translation remaps). See Import
process for details.

See also

You can see how saving and loading works in action using the Run-time File
Saving and Loading (Serialization) demo project.

## Plain text and binary files

Godot's FileAccess class provides methods to access files on the filesystem
for reading and writing:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    func save_file(content):
        var file = FileAccess.open("/path/to/file.txt", FileAccess.WRITE)
        file.store_string(content)
    
    func load_file():
        var file = FileAccess.open("/path/to/file.txt", FileAccess.READ)
        var content = file.get_as_text()
        return content
    
    
    
    private void SaveFile(string content)
    {
        using var file = FileAccess.Open("/Path/To/File.txt", FileAccess.ModeFlags.Write);
        file.StoreString(content);
    }
    
    private string LoadFile()
    {
        using var file = FileAccess.Open("/Path/To/File.txt", FileAccess.ModeFlags.Read);
        string content = file.GetAsText();
        return content;
    }
    

To handle custom binary formats (such as loading file formats not supported by
Godot), FileAccess provides several methods to read/write integers, floats,
strings and more. These FileAccess methods have names that start with `get_`
and `store_`.

If you need more control over reading binary files or need to read binary
streams that are not part of a file, PackedByteArray provides several helper
methods to decode/encode series of bytes to integers, floats, strings and
more. These PackedByteArray methods have names that start with `decode_` and
`encode_`. See also Binary serialization API.

## Images

Image's Image.load_from_file static method handles everything, from format
detection based on file extension to reading the file from disk.

If you need error handling or more control (such as changing the scale an SVG
is loaded at), use one of the following methods depending on the file format:

  * Image.load_jpg_from_buffer

  * Image.load_ktx_from_buffer

  * Image.load_png_from_buffer

  * Image.load_svg_from_buffer or Image.load_svg_from_string

  * Image.load_tga_from_buffer

  * Image.load_webp_from_buffer

Several image formats can also be saved by Godot at runtime using the
following methods:

  * Image.save_png or Image.save_png_to_buffer

  * Image.save_webp or Image.save_webp_to_buffer

  * Image.save_jpg or Image.save_jpg_to_buffer

  * Image.save_exr or Image.save_exr_to_buffer (only available in editor builds, cannot be used in exported projects)

The methods with the `to_buffer` suffix save the image to a PackedByteArray
instead of the filesystem. This is useful to send the image over the network
or into a ZIP archive without having to write it on the filesystem. This can
increase performance by reducing I/O utilization.

Note

If displaying the loaded image on a 3D surface, make sure to call
Image.generate_mipmaps so that the texture doesn't look grainy when viewed at
a distance. This is also useful in 2D when following instructions on reducing
aliasing when downsampling.

Example of loading an image and displaying it in a TextureRect node (which
requires conversion to ImageTexture):

GDScriptC#

    
    
    # Load an image of any format supported by Godot from the filesystem.
    var image = Image.load_from_file(path)
    # Optionally, generate mipmaps if displaying the texture on a 3D surface
    # so that the texture doesn't look grainy when viewed at a distance.
    #image.generate_mipmaps()
    $TextureRect.texture = ImageTexture.create_from_image(image)
    
    # Save the loaded Image to a PNG image.
    image.save_png("/path/to/file.png")
    
    # Save the converted ImageTexture to a PNG image.
    $TextureRect.texture.get_image().save_png("/path/to/file.png")
    
    
    
    // Load an image of any format supported by Godot from the filesystem.
    var image = Image.LoadFromFile(path);
    // Optionally, generate mipmaps if displaying the texture on a 3D surface
    // so that the texture doesn't look grainy when viewed at a distance.
    // image.GenerateMipmaps();
    GetNode<TextureRect>("TextureRect").Texture = ImageTexture.CreateFromImage(image);
    
    // Save the loaded Image to a PNG image.
    image.SavePng("/Path/To/File.png");
    
    // Save the converted ImageTexture to a PNG image.
    GetNode<TextureRect>("TextureRect").Texture.GetImage().SavePng("/Path/To/File.png");
    

## Audio/video files

Godot supports loading Ogg Vorbis, MP3, and WAV audio at runtime. Note that
not all files with an `.ogg` extension are Ogg Vorbis files. Some may be Ogg
Theora videos, or contain Opus audio within an Ogg container. These files will
not load correctly as audio files in Godot.

Example of loading an Ogg Vorbis audio file in an AudioStreamPlayer node:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    $AudioStreamPlayer.stream = AudioStreamOggVorbis.load_from_file(path)
    
    
    
    GetNode<AudioStreamPlayer>("AudioStreamPlayer").Stream = AudioStreamOggVorbis.LoadFromFile(path);
    

Example of loading an Ogg Theora video file in a VideoStreamPlayer node:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    var video_stream_theora = VideoStreamTheora.new()
    # File extension is ignored, so it is possible to load Ogg Theora videos
    # that have an `.ogg` extension this way.
    video_stream_theora.file = "/path/to/file.ogv"
    $VideoStreamPlayer.stream = video_stream_theora
    
    # VideoStreamPlayer's Autoplay property won't work if the stream is empty
    # before this property is set, so call `play()` after setting `stream`.
    $VideoStreamPlayer.play()
    
    
    
    var videoStreamTheora = new VideoStreamTheora();
    // File extension is ignored, so it is possible to load Ogg Theora videos
    // that have an `.ogg` extension this way.
    videoStreamTheora.File = "/Path/To/File.ogv";
    GetNode<VideoStreamPlayer>("VideoStreamPlayer").Stream = videoStreamTheora;
    
    // VideoStreamPlayer's Autoplay property won't work if the stream is empty
    // before this property is set, so call `Play()` after setting `Stream`.
    GetNode<VideoStreamPlayer>("VideoStreamPlayer").Play();
    

## 3D scenes

Godot has first-class support for glTF 2.0, both in the editor and exported
projects. Using GLTFDocument and GLTFState together, Godot can load and save
glTF files in exported projects, in both text (`.gltf`) and binary (`.glb`)
formats. The binary format should be preferred as it's faster to write and
smaller, but the text format is easier to debug.

Example of loading a glTF scene and appending its root node to the scene:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    # Load an existing glTF scene.
    # GLTFState is used by GLTFDocument to store the loaded scene's state.
    # GLTFDocument is the class that handles actually loading glTF data into a Godot node tree,
    # which means it supports glTF features such as lights and cameras.
    var gltf_document_load = GLTFDocument.new()
    var gltf_state_load = GLTFState.new()
    var error = gltf_document_load.append_from_file("/path/to/file.gltf", gltf_state_load)
    if error == OK:
        var gltf_scene_root_node = gltf_document_load.generate_scene(gltf_state_load)
        add_child(gltf_scene_root_node)
    else:
        show_error("Couldn't load glTF scene (error code: %s)." % error_string(error))
    
    # Save a new glTF scene.
    var gltf_document_save := GLTFDocument.new()
    var gltf_state_save := GLTFState.new()
    gltf_document_save.append_from_scene(gltf_scene_root_node, gltf_state_save)
    # The file extension in the output `path` (`.gltf` or `.glb`) determines
    # whether the output uses text or binary format.
    # `GLTFDocument.generate_buffer()` is also available for saving to memory.
    gltf_document_save.write_to_filesystem(gltf_state_save, path)
    
    
    
    // Load an existing glTF scene.
    // GLTFState is used by GLTFDocument to store the loaded scene's state.
    // GLTFDocument is the class that handles actually loading glTF data into a Godot node tree,
    // which means it supports glTF features such as lights and cameras.
    var gltfDocumentLoad = new GltfDocument();
    var gltfStateLoad = new GltfState();
    var error = gltfDocumentLoad.AppendFromFile("/Path/To/File.gltf", gltfStateLoad);
    if (error == Error.Ok)
    {
        var gltfSceneRootNode = gltfDocumentLoad.GenerateScene(gltfStateLoad);
        AddChild(gltfSceneRootNode);
    }
    else
    {
        GD.PrintErr($"Couldn't load glTF scene (error code: {error}).");
    }
    
    // Save a new glTF scene.
    var gltfDocumentSave = new GltfDocument();
    var gltfStateSave = new GltfState();
    gltfDocumentSave.AppendFromScene(gltfSceneRootNode, gltfStateSave);
    // The file extension in the output `path` (`.gltf` or `.glb`) determines
    // whether the output uses text or binary format.
    // `GltfDocument.GenerateBuffer()` is also available for saving to memory.
    gltfDocumentSave.WriteToFilesystem(gltfStateSave, path);
    

Note

When loading a glTF scene, a base path must be set so that external resources
like textures can be loaded correctly. When loading from a file, the base path
is automatically set to the folder containing the file. When loading from a
buffer, this base path must be manually set as there is no way for Godot to
infer this path.

To set the base path, set GLTFState.base_path on your GLTFState instance
before calling GLTFDocument.append_from_buffer or
GLTFDocument.append_from_file.

## Fonts

FontFile.load_dynamic_font supports the following font file formats: TTF, OTF,
WOFF, WOFF2, PFB, PFM

On the other hand, FontFile.load_bitmap_font supports the BMFont format
(`.fnt` or `.font`).

Additionally, it is possible to load any font that is installed on the system
using Godot's support for System fonts.

Example of loading a font file automatically according to its file extension,
then adding it as a theme override to a Label node:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    var path = "/path/to/font.ttf"
    var path_lower = path.to_lower()
    var font_file = FontFile.new()
    if (
            path_lower.ends_with(".ttf")
            or path_lower.ends_with(".otf")
            or path_lower.ends_with(".woff")
            or path_lower.ends_with(".woff2")
            or path_lower.ends_with(".pfb")
            or path_lower.ends_with(".pfm")
    ):
        font_file.load_dynamic_font(path)
    elif path_lower.ends_with(".fnt") or path_lower.ends_with(".font"):
        font_file.load_bitmap_font(path)
    else:
        push_error("Invalid font file format.")
    
    if not font_file.data.is_empty():
        # If font was loaded successfully, add it as a theme override.
        $Label.add_theme_font_override("font", font_file)
    
    
    
    string path = "/Path/To/Font.ttf";
    var fontFile = new FontFile();
    
    if (
        path.EndsWith(".ttf", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)
        || path.EndsWith(".otf", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)
        || path.EndsWith(".woff", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)
        || path.EndsWith(".woff2", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)
        || path.EndsWith(".pfb", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)
        || path.EndsWith(".pfm", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)
    )
    {
        fontFile.LoadDynamicFont(path);
    }
    else if (path.EndsWith(".fnt", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase) || path.EndsWith(".font", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase))
    {
        fontFile.LoadBitmapFont(path);
    }
    else
    {
        GD.PrintErr("Invalid font file format.");
    }
    
    if (!fontFile.Data.IsEmpty())
    {
        // If font was loaded successfully, add it as a theme override.
        GetNode<Label>("Label").AddThemeFontOverride("font", fontFile);
    }
    

## ZIP archives

Godot supports reading and writing ZIP archives using the ZIPReader and
ZIPPacker classes. This supports any ZIP file, including files generated by
Godot's "Export PCK/ZIP" functionality (although these will contain imported
Godot resources rather than the original project files).

Note

Use ProjectSettings.load_resource_pack to load PCK or ZIP files exported by
Godot as additional data packs. That approach is preferred for DLCs, as it
makes interacting with additional data packs seamless (virtual filesystem).

This ZIP archive support can be combined with runtime image, 3D scene and
audio loading to provide a seamless modding experience without requiring users
to go through the Godot editor to generate PCK/ZIP files.

Example that lists files in a ZIP archive in an ItemList node, then writes
contents read from it to a new ZIP archive (essentially duplicating the
archive):

GDScriptC#

    
    
    # Load an existing ZIP archive.
    var zip_reader = ZIPReader.new()
    zip_reader.open(path)
    var files = zip_reader.get_files()
    # The list of files isn't sorted by default. Sort it for more consistent processing.
    files.sort()
    for file in files:
        $ItemList.add_item(file, null)
        # Make folders disabled in the list.
        $ItemList.set_item_disabled(-1, file.ends_with("/"))
    
    # Save a new ZIP archive.
    var zip_packer = ZIPPacker.new()
    var error = zip_packer.open(path)
    if error != OK:
        push_error("Couldn't open path for saving ZIP archive (error code: %s)." % error_string(error))
        return
    
    # Reuse the above ZIPReader instance to read files from an existing ZIP archive.
    for file in zip_reader.get_files():
        zip_packer.start_file(file)
        zip_packer.write_file(zip_reader.read_file(file))
        zip_packer.close_file()
    
    zip_packer.close()
    
    
    
    // Load an existing ZIP archive.
    var zipReader = new ZipReader();
    zipReader.Open(path);
    string[] files = zipReader.GetFiles();
    // The list of files isn't sorted by default. Sort it for more consistent processing.
    Array.Sort(files);
    foreach (string file in files)
    {
        GetNode<ItemList>("ItemList").AddItem(file);
        // Make folders disabled in the list.
        GetNode<ItemList>("ItemList").SetItemDisabled(-1, file.EndsWith('/'));
    }
    
    // Save a new ZIP archive.
    var zipPacker = new ZipPacker();
    var error = zipPacker.Open(path);
    if (error != Error.Ok)
    {
        GD.PrintErr($"Couldn't open path for saving ZIP archive (error code: {error}).");
        return;
    }
    
    // Reuse the above ZIPReader instance to read files from an existing ZIP archive.
    foreach (string file in zipReader.GetFiles())
    {
        zipPacker.StartFile(file);
        zipPacker.WriteFile(zipReader.ReadFile(file));
        zipPacker.CloseFile();
    }
    
    zipPacker.Close();
    

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

