# Using Viewports

## Introduction

Think of a Viewport as a screen onto which the game is projected. In order to
see the game, we need to have a surface on which to draw it. That surface is
the Root Viewport.

SubViewports are a kind of Viewport that can be added to the scene so that
there are multiple surfaces to draw on. When we are drawing to a SubViewport,
we call it a render target. We can access the contents of a render target by
accessing its corresponding texture. By using a SubViewport as render target,
we can either render multiple scenes simultaneously or we can render to a
ViewportTexture which is applied to an object in the scene, for example a
dynamic skybox.

SubViewports have a variety of use cases, including:

  * Rendering 3D objects within a 2D game

  * Rendering 2D elements in a 3D game

  * Rendering dynamic textures

  * Generating procedural textures at runtime

  * Rendering multiple cameras in the same scene

What all these use cases have in common is that you are given the ability to
draw objects to a texture as if it were another screen and can then choose
what to do with the resulting texture.

Another kind of Viewports in Godot are Windows. They allow their content to be
projected onto a window. While the Root Viewport is a Window, they are less
flexible. If you want to use the texture of a Viewport, you'll be working with
SubViewports most of the time.

## Input

Viewports are also responsible for delivering properly adjusted and scaled
input events to their children nodes. By default SubViewports don't
automatically receive input, unless they receive it from their direct
SubViewportContainer parent node. In this case, input can be disabled with the
Disable Input property.

For more information on how Godot handles input, please read the Input Event
Tutorial.

## Listener

Godot supports 3D sound (in both 2D and 3D nodes). More on this can be found
in the Audio Streams Tutorial. For this type of sound to be audible, the
Viewport needs to be enabled as a listener (for 2D or 3D). If you are using a
SubViewport to display your World3D or World2D, don't forget to enable this!

## Cameras (2D & 3D)

When using a Camera3D or Camera2D, it will always display on the closest
parent Viewport (going towards the root). For example, in the following
hierarchy:

`CameraA` will display on the Root Viewport and it will draw `MeshA`.
`CameraB` will be captured by the SubViewport along with `MeshB`. Even though
`MeshB` is in the scene hierarchy, it will still not be drawn to the Root
Viewport. Similarly, `MeshA` will not be visible from the SubViewport because
SubViewports only capture nodes below them in the hierarchy.

There can only be one active camera per Viewport, so if there is more than
one, make sure that the desired one has the current property set, or make it
the current camera by calling:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    camera.make_current()
    
    
    
    camera.MakeCurrent();
    

By default, cameras will render all objects in their world. In 3D, cameras can
use their cull_mask property combined with the VisualInstance3D's layer
property to restrict which objects are rendered.

## Scale & stretching

SubViewports have a size property, which represents the size of the
SubViewport in pixels. For SubViewports which are children of
SubViewportContainers, these values are overridden, but for all others, this
sets their resolution.

It is also possible to scale the 2D content and make the SubViewport
resolution different from the one specified in size, by calling:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    sub_viewport.set_size_2d_override(Vector2i(width, height)) # Custom size for 2D.
    sub_viewport.set_size_2d_override_stretch(true) # Enable stretch for custom size.
    
    
    
    subViewport.Size2DOverride = new Vector2I(width, height); // Custom size for 2D.
    subViewport.Size2DOverrideStretch = true; // Enable stretch for custom size.
    

For information on scaling and stretching with the Root Viewport visit the
Multiple Resolutions Tutorial

## Worlds

For 3D, a Viewport will contain a World3D. This is basically the universe that
links physics and rendering together. Node3D-based nodes will register using
the World3D of the closest Viewport. By default, newly created Viewports do
not contain a World3D but use the same as their parent Viewport. The Root
Viewport always contains a World3D, which is the one objects are rendered to
by default.

A World3D can be set in a Viewport using the World 3D property, that will
separate all children nodes of this Viewport and will prevent them from
interacting with the parent Viewport's World3D. This is especially useful in
scenarios where, for example, you might want to show a separate character in
3D imposed over the game (like in StarCraft).

As a helper for situations where you want to create Viewports that display
single objects and don't want to create a World3D, Viewport has the option to
use its Own World3D. This is useful when you want to instance 3D characters or
objects in World2D.

For 2D, each Viewport always contains its own World2D. This suffices in most
cases, but in case sharing them may be desired, it is possible to do so by
setting world_2d on the Viewport through code.

For an example of how this works, see the demo projects 3D in 2D and 2D in 3D
respectively.

## Capture

It is possible to query a capture of the Viewport contents. For the Root
Viewport, this is effectively a screen capture. This is done with the
following code:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    # Retrieve the captured Image using get_image().
    var img = get_viewport().get_texture().get_image()
    # Convert Image to ImageTexture.
    var tex = ImageTexture.create_from_image(img)
    # Set sprite texture.
    sprite.texture = tex
    
    
    
    // Retrieve the captured Image using get_image().
    var img = GetViewport().GetTexture().GetImage();
    // Convert Image to ImageTexture.
    var tex = ImageTexture.CreateFromImage(img);
    // Set sprite texture.
    sprite.Texture = tex;
    

But if you use this in `_ready()` or from the first frame of the Viewport's
initialization, you will get an empty texture because there is nothing to get
as texture. You can deal with it using (for example):

GDScriptC#

    
    
    # Wait until the frame has finished before getting the texture.
    await RenderingServer.frame_post_draw
    # You can get the image after this.
    
    
    
    // Wait until the frame has finished before getting the texture.
    await RenderingServer.Singleton.ToSignal(RenderingServer.SignalName.FramePostDraw);
    // You can get the image after this.
    

## Viewport Container

If the SubViewport is a child of a SubViewportContainer, it will become active
and display anything it has inside. The layout looks like this:

The SubViewport will cover the area of its parent SubViewportContainer
completely if Stretch is set to `true` in the SubViewportContainer.

Note

The size of the SubViewportContainer cannot be smaller than the size of the
SubViewport.

## Rendering

Due to the fact that the Viewport is an entryway into another rendering
surface, it exposes a few rendering properties that can be different from the
project settings. You can choose to use a different level of MSAA for each
Viewport. The default behavior is `Disabled`.

If you know that the Viewport is only going to be used for 2D, you can Disable
3D. Godot will then restrict how the Viewport is drawn. Disabling 3D is
slightly faster and uses less memory compared to enabled 3D. It's a good idea
to disable 3D if your viewport doesn't render anything in 3D.

Note

If you need to render 3D shadows in the viewport, make sure to set the
viewport's positional_shadow_atlas_size property to a value higher than `0`.
Otherwise, shadows won't be rendered. By default, the equivalent project
setting is set to `4096` on desktop platforms and `2048` on mobile platforms.

Godot also provides a way of customizing how everything is drawn inside
Viewports using Debug Draw. Debug Draw allows you to specify a mode which
determines how the Viewport will display things drawn inside it. Debug Draw is
`Disabled` by default. Some other options are `Unshaded`, `Overdraw`, and
`Wireframe`. For a full list, refer to the Viewport Documentation.

  * Debug Draw = Disabled (default): The scene is drawn normally.

>   * Debug Draw = Unshaded: Unshaded draws the scene without using lighting
> information so all the objects appear flatly colored in their albedo color.

>   * Debug Draw = Overdraw: Overdraw draws the meshes semi-transparent with
> an additive blend so you can see how the meshes overlap.

>   * Debug Draw = Wireframe: Wireframe draws the scene using only the edges
> of triangles in the meshes.

> Note

Debug Draw modes are currently not supported when using the Compatibility
rendering method. They will appear as regular draw modes.

## Render target

When rendering to a SubViewport, whatever is inside will not be visible in the
scene editor. To display the contents, you have to draw the SubViewport's
ViewportTexture somewhere. This can be requested via code using (for example):

GDScriptC#

    
    
    # This gives us the ViewportTexture.
    var tex = viewport.get_texture()
    sprite.texture = tex
    
    
    
    // This gives us the ViewportTexture.
    var tex = viewport.GetTexture();
    sprite.Texture = tex;
    

Or it can be assigned in the editor by selecting "New ViewportTexture"

and then selecting the Viewport you want to use.

Every frame, the Viewport's texture is cleared away with the default clear
color (or a transparent color if Transparent BG is set to `true`). This can be
changed by setting Clear Mode to `Never` or `Next Frame`. As the name implies,
Never means the texture will never be cleared, while next frame will clear the
texture on the next frame and then set itself to Never.

By default, re-rendering of the SubViewport happens when its ViewportTexture
has been drawn in a frame. If visible, it will be rendered, otherwise, it will
not. This behavior can be changed by setting Update Mode to `Never`, `Once`,
`Always`, or `When Parent Visible`. Never and Always will never or always re-
render respectively. Once will re-render the next frame and change to Never
afterwards. This can be used to manually update the Viewport. This flexibility
allows users to render an image once and then use the texture without
incurring the cost of rendering every frame.

Note

Make sure to check the Viewport demos. They are available in the viewport
folder of the demos archive, or at https://github.com/godotengine/godot-demo-
projects/tree/master/viewport.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

