# Project Settings

There are dozens of settings you can change to control a project's execution,
including physics, rendering, and windowing settings. These settings can be
changed from the Project Settings window, from code, or by manually editing
the `project.godot` file. You can see a full list of settings in the
ProjectSettings class.

Internally, Godot stores the settings for a project in a `project.godot` file,
a plain text file in INI format. While this is human-readable and version
control friendly, it's not the most convenient to edit. For that reason, the
Project Settings window is available to edit these settings. To open the
Project Settings, select Project > Project Settings from the main menu.

The Project Settings window

The Project Settings window is mainly used to change settings in the General
tab. Additionally, there are tabs for the Input Map, Localization, Globals,
Plugins, and Import Defaults. Usage of these other tabs is documented
elsewhere.

## Changing project settings

The General tab of the project settings window works much like the inspector.
It displays a list of project settings which you can change, just like
inspector properties. There is a list of categories on the left, which you can
use to select related groups of settings. You can also search for a specific
setting with the Filter Settings field.

Each setting has a default value. Settings can be reset to their default
values by clicking the circular arrow Reset button next to each property.

### Changing project settings from code

You can use set_setting() to change a setting's value from code:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    ProjectSettings.set_setting("application/run/max_fps", 60)
    ProjectSettings.set_setting("display/window/size/mode", DisplayServer.WINDOW_MODE_WINDOWED)
    
    
    
    ProjectSettings.SetSetting("application/run/max_fps", 60);
    ProjectSettings.SetSetting("display/window/size/mode", (int)DisplayServer.WindowMode.Windowed);
    

However, many project settings are only read once when the game starts. After
that, changing the setting with `set_setting()` will have no effect. Instead,
most settings have a corresponding property or method on a runtime class like
Engine or DisplayServer:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    Engine.max_fps = 60
    DisplayServer.window_set_mode(DisplayServer.WINDOW_MODE_WINDOWED)
    
    
    
    Engine.MaxFps = 60;
    DisplayServer.WindowSetMode(DisplayServer.WindowMode.Windowed);
    

In general, project settings are duplicated at runtime in the Engine,
PhysicsServer2D, PhysicsServer3D, RenderingServer, Viewport, or Window
classes. In the ProjectSettings class reference, settings links to their
equivalent runtime property or method.

## Reading project settings

You can read project settings with get_setting() or
get_setting_with_override():

GDScriptC#

    
    
    var max_fps = ProjectSettings.get_setting("application/run/max_fps")
    var window_mode = ProjectSettings.get_setting("display/window/size/mode")
    
    
    
    int maxFps = (int)ProjectSettings.GetSetting("application/run/max_fps");
    var windowMode = (DisplayServer.WindowMode)(int)ProjectSettings.GetSetting("display/window/size/mode");
    

Since many project settings are only read once at startup, the value in the
project settings may no longer be accurate. In these cases, it's better to
read the value from the runtime equivalent property or method:

GDScriptC#

    
    
    var max_fps = Engine.max_fps
    var window_mode = DisplayServer.window_get_mode()
    
    
    
    int maxFps = Engine.MaxFps;
    DisplayServer.WindowMode windowMode = DisplayServer.WindowGetMode();
    

## Manually editing project.godot

You can open the `project.godot` file using a text editor and manually change
project settings. Note that if the `project.godot` file does not have a stored
value for a particular setting, it is implicitly the default value of that
setting. This means that if you are are manually editing the file, you may
have to write in both the setting name and the value.

In general, it is recommended to use the Project Settings window rather than
manually edit `project.godot`.

## Advanced project settings

The advanced project settings

By default, only some project settings are shown. To see all the project
settings, enable the Advanced Settings toggle.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

